Hi, everybody.
In this lesson, I'm going to introduce to you
the Azure Migrate service.
So we'll get started with a basic introduction
of what Azure Migrate is and what purpose it serves.
We'll have a chat about some of the key features,
and then I want to jump into the Azure portal
and actually show you how the Azure Migrate service works.
So first things first, what is Azure Migrate?
Well, Azure Migrate is this centralized management
interface, if you like, that provides many different tools
to support the migration of various different workloads.
So we can migrate data, applications, servers,
and this is actually a list that continues to expand.
Now, when we use the Azure Migrate service,
one of the first tools that we want to use
is something referred to as an assessment tool.
This is where we're taking a look at the thing
that we want to migrate and learning more
important information about that thing,
about that workload, with respect to the migration.
So if we were migrating a database, well,
is it going to be compatible with the service in Azure
that we're migrating to?
If we're migrating a server, are there going to be
any issues? What's the cost going to be?
These are the types of things we look at
with the assessment tools.
Next, you have the more obvious types of tools
that we can use within the Azure Migrate service,
and these are the migration tools.
This, of course, is to help us migrate the given workload
from a source environment into Azure.
Now, whether we're using the assessment or migration tools,
you're actually going to see that there's support
for third-party solutions, as well as support
for Microsoft-integrated solutions, as well.
So within the Azure Migrate service,
there are a number of key features that we're talking about:
server migrations, database migrations,
data migrations, and web application migrations.
So you can see the Azure Migrate service
is really quite powerful and versatile.
It helps us to migrate a range of different workloads
from on-premises or other cloud environments into Azure.
Really, Microsoft has gone about providing a range
of different tools to help simplify the migration for you.
For server desktops, we might be talking about
virtual machines, physical servers, we may even be
looking at virtual desktop infrastructure.
For database migrations, that can be on-premises SQL
servers, maybe migrating across to Azure SQL,
and for things like data migrations,
you might be looking at importing a range of massive amounts
of data from on-premises across to Azure
using physical hardware.
Last but definitely not least, the web application migration
service is great at helping look at on-premises,
.NET and PHP applications, and whether or not you can
migrate them simply across to the Azure App Service.
So what we're talking about here is a really powerful
and really versatile service.
Now, we are, of course, only going to focus on
server migrations, but I did just want to make it clear
that the Azure Migrate service is much more than this.
And remember, when we're going through the migration
planning activities, we need to have a think about
what we're trying to achieve.
You can perform server migrations,
like we're going to look at, but maybe you have
a web application that you want to migrate,
and maybe rather than doing a lift and shift of your server
across to Azure, you might be more interested in actually
re-architecting that service and pulling it across
from a on-premises server, for example,
moving it into a Platform as a Service solution,
like Azure App Service.
So just bear in mind that we have these options.
Now, whatever one of these options we're going to do,
we need to create something referred to
as a Azure Migrate project.
So let's jump into the Azure portal
and see what this all looks like right now.
Okay, everybody, so here I am within the Azure portal
and what we want to take a look at
is the Azure Migrate service.
Now, understand, if this is the first time you were using
Azure Migrate, you can click on the Azure Migrate service.
You might search for Azure Migrate up at the top here
in the search bar, or you might even go ahead
and click on the Create A Resource option.
So if we click Create A Resource and type Azure Migrate,
you'll see we can get started here, as well.
Now, if I go ahead and click on Create to create
an Azure Migrate project, you'll see it takes me
straightaway into the Azure Migrate service.
I wanted to quickly demonstrate that the reason for this
is because I already have something referred to
as an Azure Migrate project.
So I'm just going to browse into Servers, and you'll see
I have this option here to change the migrate project.
So if I click on Change, and then I go ahead and click on
the Click Here To Create A New Project,
this is the experience you're going to see
if you haven't yet used Azure Migrate.
So let's walk through this now.
Let's say I'm getting started creating
a new Azure Migrate project.
This is going to be responsible for holding
all of the important information about assessment
and migration that we are going to perform
within the Migrate project itself.
So this might be important metadata, like,
have you migrated a server?
Have you performed a test failover of a server migration?
What server assessment tools are you using?
What migration tools are you using?
So you can pick your resource group,
I'm going to go ahead and leave that as migrate-rg,
and I'm going to give my migration project a name.
Let's just call this migratetest.
Now I'm going to leave the geography
for my migrate project as Australia.
Understand what we're talking about here is the metadata
associated with the migration activities
that you're going to perform.
You could have a migration project in Australia
but actually migrate servers to India, for example.
This is just where the metadata is going to be housed.
If I go ahead and click on Next, you'll see what we're now
focusing on are the different types of assessment
and migration tools, like we just spoke about.
So I might want to use the integrated Microsoft
server assessment tool. I can go ahead and click on that.
And then if I go ahead and click on Next,
I can now choose the migration tool.
So that might be server migration using
the Microsoft-integrated option as well.
I want to go ahead and click on Next and Create,
it's going to create that project for me
for housing that important metadata,
but one thing to take away from what we're looking at
right now is that we have much more than just
the Microsoft options.
So again, it could be Microsoft, Cloudamize, Movere.
There's a lot of different options you can use,
and the capabilities and the supported workloads
that you're going to get are going to differ
depending on the tool that you actually use.
We're going to stick with
the Azure Migrate server assessment
and the Azure Migrate server migration tool by Microsoft.
So let's go ahead and click on Next,
then we can go and click on Add Tools.
Now, what this is doing is
this is setting up the migration project for us
within that migrate resource group.
So if I go ahead now and click on Home, I just want to
quickly show you something important about that.
I'm going to click on Resource Groups, and I'm going to
navigate into the resource group, migrate-rg.
This is where I've just created the migrate project.
Now, you can see I've got some other resources here
for other activities I've already been performing,
but if we have a look at the Show Hidden Types,
you'll see here, we have the migratetest resource
that we just created.
This is all we're talking about when we create our project.
It's a special resource that's hidden,
it's going to to sit in this resource group,
and it's where that important metadata is going to be stored
for the different assessment and migration activities.
So that's just something to bear in mind
about the hidden project resource.
Otherwise, everything we are going to do
is going to be through the Azure Migrate service.
So if I navigate into Azure Migrate,
you'll see on the left-hand side, I can choose all of
the different workloads that we spoke about a moment ago.
We're going to have server assessment and migration tools,
database assessment and migration tools, VDI, web apps,
and data box for big amounts of data
from on-premises to Azure.
But again, just understand, for the migration project,
we're talking about storing important metadata.
If you have multiple projects,
you can click on Change, and you can go ahead
and change to the different projects here, as well.
So why might you do this?
Well, maybe what you want to do is
you want to have multiple different migration projects.
You might start with a first group of maybe migrating
some simple servers, some less important servers from
on-premises to Azure.
Maybe then you want to do a second group
that's going to include more important servers, as well.
Well, it's really up to you,
whether you want to have multiple projects for this,
or if you just want to have the 1.
Certainly, if you have multiple projects,
all of the information that's going to be stored here
is nice and clean, and you can easily change between
those projects to actually reflect the real-world projects
that you have underway.
Well, folks, that's a wrap for this lesson
on the Azure Migrate service.
As you can see, it's a very versatile, powerful tool
that supports a range of different workloads,
not just servers, but other things like databases
and web applications, as well.
When we get started, we first need to have that
migration project, and that's what's going to house
the important metadata about the tools that we use
and the activities that we perform.
So thanks for your time on this one, folks.
I'll see you in the next lesson.